JS SDK Revamp (#725)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/load-js-sdk.mdx

---

> title: "Load JavaScript SDK"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Loading the JavaScript SDK"
```

> description: Detailed technical documentation on how to load the JavaScript SDK with various options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Detailed technical documentation on loading the JavaScript SDK with various options.
```

---

You can load the JavaScript SDK using the `load` API method to track and send events from your website to RudderStack. It can be defined as:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL, [loadOptions]);
```

<div class="infoBlock">

> Replace the <Link to="/resources/glossary/#write-key">Write key</Link> and <Link to="/dashboard-guides/overview/#data-plane-url">Data plane URL</Link> in the above snippet with actual values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace <Link to="/resources/glossary/#write-key"><code class="inline-code">WRITE_KEY</code></Link> and <Link to="/dashboard-guides/overview/#data-plane-url"><code class="inline-code">DATA_PLANE_URL</code></Link> in the above snippet with the actual values.
```

</div>

## Loading options 

> The **loadOptions** in the `load` call above can be used to define various options while loading the SDK. It includes the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use **loadOptions* in the above `load` call to define various options while loading the SDK. It includes the following parameters:
```

```javascript
{
  logLevel: "DEBUG" | "INFO" | "WARN",
  integrations: IntegrationOpts,
  configUrl: string,  // defaults to https://api.rudderlabs.com
  queueOptions: QueueOpts,
  loadIntegration: boolean, // defaults to true.
  secureCookie: boolean, // defaults to false.
  destSDKBaseURL: string, // defaults to https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations
  useBeacon: boolean, // defaults to false.
  beaconQueueOptions: BeaconQueueOpts,
  cookieConsentManager: cookieConsentManager,
  anonymousIdOptions: AnonymousIdOptions
}
```

The detailed description of these parameters is as follows:

| Parameter             | Type                                | Description                    |
| :-------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------ |
|  `logLevel`           | String                              | Values include `DEBUG`, `INFO`, and `WARN`.             |

> |  `integrations`       | <Link to="#integrationopts">IntegrationOpts</Link> | Send event data to the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/filtering/">selective destinations</Link>.                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  `integrations`       | <Link to="#integrationopts">IntegrationOpts</Link> | Sends event data to the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/filtering/">selective destinations</Link>.                                          |
```

> |  `configUrl`          | String                              |  Server (<Link to="/get-started/rudderstack-open-source/control-plane-lite/">Control Plane</Link>) endpoint serving your destination configurations. Default value: `https://api.rudderlabs.com`. Note that the source config is automatically appended to this endpoint, `https://api.rudderlabs.com/<source_config_url>/sourceConfig`  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  `configUrl`          | String                              |  The <Link to="/get-started/rudderstack-open-source/control-plane-lite/">Control Plane</Link> endpoint serving your destination configurations. Default value is `https://api.rudderlabs.com`. Note that `sourceConfig` is automatically appended to this endpoint in the format `https://api.rudderlabs.com/<source_config_url>/sourceConfig`  |
```

> |  `queueOpts`          | <Link to="#queueopts">QueueOpts</Link>         | Contains options to control the behavior of the persistence queue that buffers the events before sending them to the data plane.          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  `queueOpts`          | <Link to="#queueopts">QueueOpts</Link>         | Contains the options to control the behavior of the persistence queue that buffers the events before sending them to the data plane.          |
```

> |  `loadIntegration`    | Boolean                             | Determines whether the destination SDKs are fetched by the SDK or not (true by default). Supported for **Amplitude** and **Google Analytics**.                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  `loadIntegration`    | Boolean                             | Determines whether the destination SDKs are fetched by the SDK or not. Default value is `True`. Supported for **Amplitude** and **Google Analytics**.                      |
```

> | `secureCookie`        | Boolean                             | Determines whether the SDK sends the cookie to the storage backend via HTTPS (false by default).|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `secureCookie`        | Boolean                             | Determines whether the SDK sends the cookie to the storage backend via HTTPS. Default value is `False`. |
```

> | `destSDKBaseURL`      | String                              | Path used by the SDK to load the integrations. Default value: `https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations`. <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/version-migration-guide/#case-3-self-hosting-rudderstacks-cdn">Reference</Link>.    | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `destSDKBaseURL`      | String                              | Path used by the SDK to load the integrations. Default value is  `https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations`. <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/version-migration-guide/#case-3-self-hosting-rudderstacks-cdn">Reference</Link>.    | 
```

> | `useBeacon`           | Boolean                             | Determines whether the SDK <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/javascript-sdk-enhancements/#send-events-using-beacon">sends event payloads via Beacon</Link> (false by default).  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `useBeacon`           | Boolean                             | Determines whether the SDK <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/javascript-sdk-enhancements/#send-events-using-beacon">sends event payloads via Beacon</Link>. Default value is `False`.  |
```

| `beaconQueueOptions`  | <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/javascript-sdk-enhancements/#send-events-using-beacon">BeaconQueueOpts</Link> | Internal queue to hold the data and send it through the Beacon utility in batches. |

> | `cookieConsentManager` | Object       |  <Link to="#cookieconsentmanager">Consent manager integration</Link>. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `cookieConsentManager` | Object       |  Refer to the <Link to="#cookieconsentmanager">Consent manager integration</Link> section. |
```

> | `anonymousIdOptions` | Object       |  <Link to="#anonymousidoptions">Automatically captures the anonymous ID</Link> from a source and sets it as Rudderstack’s anonymousId.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `anonymousIdOptions` | Object       |  <Link to="#anonymousidoptions">Automatically captures the anonymous ID</Link> from a source and sets it as RudderStack’s anonymousId.  |
```

> The detailed definitions and usage of some parameters are given below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections contain the detailed definitions and usage of some of the above parameters:
```

#### `IntegrationOpts`

You can use this parameter to send the event data only to the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/filtering/#filtering-destinations">selective destinations</Link>. Its structure is defined as follows:

```javascript
{
  All: boolean, // default true
  <Destination1>: boolean,
  <Destination2>: boolean,
  ...
}
```

The following table describes the above (optional) parameters in detail:

| **Parameter**       | **Type**|  **Description**  |
| :------------------ | :------ | :----------------------- |
| `All`               | Boolean |  All destinations to which the event data must be sent. The default value is `true`. If set to `false`, RudderStack will not send the event data to any destination. |
| `<Destination>`     | Boolean |  Specific destination to which the event data must be sent/not, depending on its Boolean value. |

#### `QueueOpts`

> The `queueOpts` object contains the options to control the behavior of the persistence queue that buffers the events before sending them to the data plane. Its structure is defined as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `queueOpts` object contains the options to control the behavior of the persistence queue that buffers the events before sending them to RudderStack. Its structure is defined as follows:
```

  backoffFactor: 2,
  maxAttempts: 10,
  maxItems: 100,
}
```

The following table describes the above `integer` type (optional) parameters in detail:

| **Parameter**   | **Description**                                                      | **Default value** |
| :-------------- |  :--------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------|
| `maxRetryDelay` |  Upper limit on the maximum delay for an event (in ms).          | 360000            |
| `minRetryDelay` |  Minimum delay expected before sending an event (in ms).           | 1000              |
| `backoffFactor` |  Exponential base.                                      | 2                 |
| `maxAttempts`   |  Maximum number of attempts to send the event to the destination.     | 10                |
| `maxItems`      |  Maximum number of events kept in the storage.                        | 100               |

#### `cookieConsentManager`

Once a user provides the consent, you can load the JavaScript SDK and enable the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/onetrust-consent-manager/">OneTrust integration</Link> via the `cookieConsentManager` object, as shown:

```javascript

> rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL, {

Reviewer: According to the [code beautifier](https://beautifier.io/), the following formatting snippet can be used:

```
rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL, {
  cookieConsentManager: {
    oneTrust: {
      enabled: true
    }
  }
});
```

        cookieConsentManager: {
            oneTrust: {
                enabled: true
            }
        }
    }
);
```

#### `anonymousIdOptions`

> The `anonymousIdOptions` object can be used to automatically capture the anonymous ID from a source and set it as Rudderstack's `anonymousId`. For example, if you are migrating from any source, say Segment, and want to retain its anonymous ID, you can enable the `anonymousIdOptions` to set the Segment's anonymous ID as the  Rudderstack's anonymous Id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `anonymousIdOptions` object to automatically capture the anonymous ID from a source and set it as Rudderstack's `anonymousId`. 

For example, if you are migrating from a particular source and want to retain its anonymous ID, you can enable the `anonymousIdOptions` to set the source's anonymous ID as the `anonymousId` in RudderStack.
```

> Its structure is defined as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The structure of `anonymousIdOptions` is defined as follows:
```

```javascript
{
    autoCapture: {
        enabled: true,
        source: "segment",
    }

> }

Reviewer: Code may be beautified:

```
{
  autoCapture: {
    enabled: true,
    source: "segment",
  }
}
```

```
  The following table describes the above (required) parameters in detail:

  | Parameter  | Type  | Description    |   
  | :--------| :---- | :----------------| 
  | `enabled` | Boolean  | Determines if the anonymous ID should be auto-captured. | 
  | `source`  | String   | Determines the external source of anonymous ID. | 

>   <div class="infoBlock">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="infoBlock">
```

>   If the RudderStack <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code> is already set in your browser, <code class="inline-code">anonymousIdOptions</code> will not take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the RudderStack <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code> is already set in your browser, <code class="inline-code">anonymousIdOptions</code> will not take effect.
```

>   </div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
</div>
```

>   <div class="infoBlock">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="infoBlock">
```

>   You can call the <strong>Reset</strong>  API to clear the persisted anonymous ID and force the SDK to generate a new ID when the next tracking API is called (irrespective of the fact that <code class="inline-code">anonymousIdOptions</code> is enabled/disabled). However, if the <code class="inline-code">anonymousIdOptions</code> object is enabled and the SDK is loaded again (as a result of webpage reload, navigate to a different webpage, etc,), the <code class="inline-code">setAnonymousId</code> call will trigger automatically and the specified source's anonymous ID will again be set as the Rudderstack's anonymous ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can call the <strong>reset</strong>  API to clear the persisted anonymous ID and force the SDK to generate a new ID when the next tracking API is called (irrespective of whether <code class="inline-code">anonymousIdOptions</code> is enabled or disabled). However, if the <code class="inline-code">anonymousIdOptions</code> object is enabled and the SDK is loaded again (as a result of webpage reload, navigate to a different webpage, etc.), the <code class="inline-code">setAnonymousId</code> call will trigger automatically and the specified source's anonymous ID will again be set as the RudderStack <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code>.
```

  </div>

## Loading SDK for self-hosted control plane

> If you are self-hosting the control plane using the [Control Plane Lite](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-open-source/control-plane-lite/) utility, the `load` call should be as below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are self-hosting the control plane using the [Control Plane Lite](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-open-source/control-plane-lite/) utility, the `load` call should be made as below:
```

```javascript
rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL, {
    configUrl: < CONTROL_PLANE_URL > ,

> });

Reviewer: Code may be beautified as:

```
rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL, {
  configUrl: <CONTROL_PLANE_URL> ,
});
```

```

<div class="infoBlock">

> Replace the <Link to="/resources/glossary/#write-key">Write key</Link>, <Link to="/dashboard-guides/overview/#data-plane-url">Data plane URL</Link> and <Link to="/get-started/rudderstack-open-source/control-plane-lite/#control-plane-url">Control plane URL</Link> in the above snippet with actual values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace <Link to="/resources/glossary/#write-key"><code class="inline-code">WRITE_KEY</code></Link> and <Link to="/dashboard-guides/overview/#data-plane-url"><code class="inline-code">DATA_PLANE_URL</code></Link> in the above snippet with the actual values.
```

</div>

## Verifying if the SDK has loaded correctly

You can verify if the JavaScript SDK has loaded correctly by opening the JavaScript console in your browser:

- **Safari**: `Ctrl+Alt+I` \(Windows\) or `Command+Option+I` \(Mac\) and go to the `Console` tab.
- **Chrome**: `Ctrl+Shift+J` \(Windows\) or `Command+Option+J` \(Mac\).
- **Firefox**: `Ctrl+Shift+K` \(Windows\) or `Command+Option+K` \(Mac\) and select the `Console` tab.
- **Internet Explorer**: Press `F12` and go to the `Console` tab.

> Run `rudderanalytics` command in the console,. If it returns the following code snippet, it means that the `analytics.js` file has loaded successfully:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the `rudderanalytics` command in the console. If it returns the following code snippet, it means that the `analytics.js` file has loaded successfully:
```

```javascript
{Integrations: Object, _integrations: Object, _readied: true, _timeout: 300, _user: n_}
```

> If it gives an `undefined` error, you need to verify the SDK installation again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it gives an `undefined` error, you need to verify the SDK installation.
```
